Dear all, today I
will be expounding on the Dharma from the
ancient scriptures, specifically the Dhammapada. I will be
speaking to let you know the
great benefits we receive. These
benefits stem from the fact that when we face any difficulties, simply
thinking of the Buddha can lead to the elimination of karmic debt.
And before
death, what should we Buddhists do
to eliminate our
karma? This scripture speaks of the
Indra, who, simply by thinking of the Buddha and taking refuge, eliminated his karmic debt of being
reborn as an animal. He only had a
little remaining merit before returning to the
Indra realm. As you know, from the
Indra realm, his merit was
completely exhausted, and he was reborn as an animal—meaning his
merit in the human realm was gone. Yet, from
there, he returned to the Devas, where his
merit was immense. If we humans
practice the Ten Virtues diligently, we can be
reborn in the heavenly realms.
But here, just one thought of taking refuge in the Three Jewels brings such
great benefits. So let
's all strive to do so. I will now read the text of the
Dhammapada.  Parable of Impermanence,
Chapter 1: Indra, the Heavenly Emperor, took refuge in the Three
Jewels. In ancient times, the
Heavenly Emperor suddenly lost five of his virtues, knowing he was about to die. He was
reborn into the womb of a donkey
in the house of a potter.
What were the five virtues that were lost? 1. The halo on his
body disappeared; 2. The flowers on his head withered; 3. He
no longer liked his seat; 4. Sweat
dripped from his armpits, making him smell foul; 5. Dust clung to his body.
Indra, knowing
his merits had run out, was extremely worried and saddened. He
thought that in the three realms, only the Buddha could
save sentient beings from suffering, so he
hurried to the Buddha's place in the heavenly realm. The sign of impending death, that is, the
sign of no longer being in the heavenly realm, manifested as follows: firstly, the halo
on his body disappeared because each deity
has a certain halo
created by their merits. When the halo disappears, it means
their merits are lost. That is, the halo
gradually diminishes, changing from a beautiful color
to a dark color, a sign of impending death. The
flower on the head withered, meaning each
deity had a halo of
flowers on their head.  We often say that in the
human world, we see a
laurel wreath, meaning flowers are often placed on
the head of the celestial beings. The celestial beings naturally have
that wreath, and the
more merit they accumulate, the more beautiful the wreath will be. It's
not like we think, "I have
money, I keep it in a cupboard." The
celestial beings don't. It's not like if I have
money, I keep it in a cupboard; if I
go out wearing ragged clothes, no one will
know I have money. In the human world, we still
harbor deceit, that's why it's like that. But
in the human realm, they express themselves
entirely through their merit. For example, when
their merit is high, they can think of
corresponding foods; they
want to eat, they think of that food, it's automatically created by
their own merit. In the human realm, we
think of food, see it,
but our karma makes us
crave it. Because we don't have money, we
think of our karma, and we crave it. And when we crave it, we
sometimes resort to
stealing. But in the
celestial realm, we don't see people's merit; we don't see people's merit.
People crave and
like food depending on their merit. If they
lack merit, they won't like the
food offered by others. Would they be
more at ease then? For example, durian is
very delicious, but for those who
don't like it, even though it's expensive,
they'd rather eat
a fig instead.
If they like it, and you put a plate of durian and
a plate of figs, they'd choose the
fig but leave the durian out.
That's why they don't die from craving. So, in the
heavens, they don't die from
craving, while we die from craving
because we are too greedy, creating
karma that leads to dying from craving. The heavens don't suffer
like that. So, how should we practice?
We should reduce our greed, and we wo
n't suffer like that. We shouldn't be attached to
our seats.
Each celestial being has a
seat, a very
beautiful platform, unlike us who have to
build houses like this. It's not that
they have merit that automatically
gives them a seat like that.  And they
love sitting in their place, while I,
here, have to use money to build like them.
Their blessings manifest themselves as sweaty armpits, foul-smelling dirt, and
dust clinging to their bodies. These two things
mean that when their armpit sweat comes out,
they know they are about to leave their
heavenly body. At that time, they
no longer have enough blessings to desire to
go anywhere, and that is when they suffer,
suffering because they will lose what
they have. And they know where they will die—in
this heavenly realm. They know that
they will be reborn in hell or somewhere else. In
heaven, Indra sees these five things and
knows that his blessings are about to run out. He is
very worried and sad, but then
he thinks of Buddha. So here,
we, the general public, sometimes worry and feel sad. Do we think of Buddha? Do we think
of Buddha when
we are angry with our husbands? Do we think
of Buddha when we
think about how we have to
fight because our husbands are out drinking and haven't
come home yet? Do we think of Buddha when we think about who they are with?
Do we think of Buddha when we are with Buddha?  Back then, it was the same
as it was with me. If I went
somewhere and hadn't come home yet,
I'd think of all sorts of things, like
where I'd gone to eat. But then, after thinking too much, I'd get
scared, wondering if I'd had an
accident on the way. It'd
switch from one thought to another,
wondering if I'd had an
accident on the way and hadn't come
home. That's how it goes, from worry to anger, then to
pity. Usually,
we're like that, not knowing
where we're going, not knowing what's happening, just going wherever we want, and if I haven't come home yet, we just
want to
die. Then, thinking about going to die, we get scared, thinking, "Oh no, I'll die then." Then
it switches to
the other thought: "I don't know if I'll be okay on the way, I hope I
don't
die." Does everyone have that kind of mentality?
Yen used to have that kind of mentality too. Whenever I
went somewhere, I'd think, "I'm so angry, so angry!"
And in my heart, as soon as the thought
arose, "Where did you go? Where did you die? If you don't come home, the
word 'death' appears, and I get scared. Oh my god,
please don't die!
Where are you going?"  Don't be afraid of
dying, don't worry, then you'll
pray to God and Buddha to prevent anything from happening,
to avoid dying. That's
our mentality. When
Yen says something, it's based on
her own experience. Having gone through that,
how can we think of Buddha
during times of hardship?
If you think, "My husband is going out with other women, I pray to
Buddha to protect him and prevent him from going out with other
women," that's also good,
right? If your husband is drunk, you
pray to Buddha to help him
stop drinking so much. That's
also thinking of Buddha during
times of hardship and danger. Let's practice
thinking of Buddha. Let's be united, okay?
Learning from the Indra, if we face any difficulties or
despair, we remember
Buddha. But how do we remember Buddha? Let's
continue to the second part. He thought that
in the three realms, only Buddha could save
sentient beings from suffering, so he hurried
to Buddha. At that time, the Venerable Buddha ascended to meditation and
entered the Samadhi of Light
in the Stone Chamber on Mount Ky Xa.
Upon arriving and meeting the Buddha, he bowed deeply,
prostrating himself on the ground, wholeheartedly taking refuge in the
Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha. During this time of bowing and performing the ritual, the consciousness of the Heavenly Emperor, the God of Heaven,
entered the womb of a
donkey in the house of a potter. At
that moment, the mother donkey broke free from its rope and ran wildly into
the unbaked pottery, breaking many pieces. The
owner, very angry, grabbed a rope and
beat the mother donkey, causing her to miscarry. The
consciousness of the Heavenly Emperor then escaped from the donkey's womb and
returned to his original body, fully manifesting the five virtues
as before. "Is
n't that happiness? Very happy!" he thought. "He was reborn as a
donkey, but..."
He thought, "
Now,
how do I practice this? When I think of the Buddha,
I must immediately think of the
Sangha to ask for the Dharma. How should I resolve this situation in my house, Master? Do
you understand?"
He went to the Buddha, and the Buddha taught him the
Dharma, that is, to take refuge in the Buddha. "
And in this place, if I have
difficult and pressing matters like this,
I must go to the Sangha to ask for the
Dharma, because there is no Buddha here, only the
Sangha."  It's just the Dharma. Because
he went to the Buddha to receive the Dharma and take refuge,
not for the Buddha to pat his head and get rid of his
troubles. Don't believe in superstition, everyone. "
Go to the monks and they'll pat your head and get rid of your karma." There's no such thing as the
monks
casting spells or incantations to get rid of your troubles. There's
no such thing. You have to go and ask for something.
Your heart must seek the Dharma.
This heart seeking the Dharma is the Supreme. Do
you understand what the Supreme is? Your heart seeking the Dharma comes to the monks to ask for the Dharma because this is going to the Buddha to seek the Dharma and take refuge. If you
have any problems, you go to the monks to ask for the Dharma. So, the
first step
is to think of the Buddha when you have problems. The next step is to think of the monks to ask for the
Dharma. That's the second step.
When you've done these two steps,
you'll only receive a little karmic retribution,
not that it's completely gone.
Because he was destined to be reborn as a donkey.
So when he went to the Buddha to receive the
Dharma and take refuge, something happened to him while he was taking refuge.  He
was reborn as a donkey, but he
was blessed with the greatest fortune. He was
reborn as a donkey, and
his good fortune was so great that it startled the donkey.
Normally, it wouldn't be startled; the donkey would just go through with it normally. For example, when a donkey mates, there
comes a certain point when the
male donkey's sperm reaches
the egg and fertilizes it.
When it arrives,
normally, it wouldn't feel any
shock, but because he
liked it that way, his good fortune was so great that the
donkey couldn't
contain it, so it was startled. It
broke all the pottery, and the owner beat it, causing
it to miscarry. That's karma,
creating new circumstances that prevent it from being reborn as a
donkey anymore. So,
when
we encounter misfortune, we go to a monk
to ask for guidance, and we believe that there will
be new circumstances, but that doesn't mean
we'll be free from misfortune immediately.  There
will be new opportunities for
us to resolve the difficulties we
are facing. The closer we are to the monks, the
more we ask about the Dharma and practice it,
the more new opportunities will arise,
helping us to escape our
suffering. This applies to
those who are experiencing hardship and difficulty right here, right here,
so that we can benefit from this Dharma talk. As for the
main part of this Dharma talk, it speaks of
impermanence. That is, we, the practitioners,
must know that we too are subject to impermanence.
Impermanence comes to us due to
karmic forces. We could be sitting here
and suddenly die, a gust of wind could blow, or
we could trip and fall and
die, or we could choke to death. It doesn't necessarily mean death from old age or
illness; it's simply due to
karmic forces that death can occur. Since it's
karma, age doesn't matter. So when
we think about impermanence, we
must always think of the Buddha and
the concept of taking refuge, as I just told the
congregation. Whenever we face difficulties or
hardships, we must immediately think of the Buddha, then immediately
think of seeking the Dharma, and then we will cultivate our
practice.  If we continue like this until death, no matter
how heavy our karma is, while we
are here, we will only suffer the
consequences. Then we will be reborn in a
good place to continue our practice. That is the benefit
of this impermanence lesson. So, are you
happy to follow it?
If you go to a fortune teller for something at home, you
won't get
this blessing. Even after death, you won't be able to cultivate
a mind directed towards the Buddha.
But if you do turn towards the Buddha, you
must do it correctly. First, you
must think of the Buddha and the
Buddha's teachings in everything you do to solve your
problems. You must think of the Dharma, and
when you die, you will naturally
cultivate that, no matter how impermanent you are,
or even if you
committed evil deeds in your previous life and fell from a
mountaintop to your death, you can still
escape karma because it is cultivated
in the subconscious mind. The other is just a
consequence, like this donkey. The
reason it has to go down and be reborn is
because of the consequences of its
late practice. That's just a little bit.
We also see that it's only a little bit.
For example, if you die, you might just drown.
That's a premonition, but remember, when you
die like that, in that pain,
you'll habitually think about something. You'll think
about the Buddha, you'll think about the Dharma, because you've sought
refuge from the Sangha, so you'll think about the
Sangha, that is, you'll think about the Three Jewels,
right? That is, you're cultivating
your consciousness towards the Three Jewels. So
here, this article is about the
great benefit of taking refuge in the Three Jewels. Taking
refuge means returning to rely on the Three Jewels.
Whatever happens, you'll think about the Buddha, you'll
think about the Dharma, you'll think about the Sangha.
That's taking refuge in the Three Jewels, not just taking refuge. It's
not like, "I take refuge in the Three Jewels,
I have a certificate here, I throw it away, if something happens
I go to a fortune teller, and then when I die I
take the certificate out again." That's
not taking refuge. It means you have to
completely rely on the Three Jewels in your life.
Whatever circumstances arise, they must
all be within the Buddha's teachings, and all the
guidance of the Sangha. That's what it means to take refuge.  Taking refuge in the
Three Jewels,
remember this, and you will receive benefits. (
Continue reading the last part of the sutra.) After the Buddha emerged
from Samadhi, he praised, "Excellent! The
Heavenly Emperor, even at the moment of death,
knows to take refuge in the Three Jewels. His karmic debts
are paid, and he will no longer suffer the consequences."
Then the Buddha
recited a verse: "All things are impermanent; that is
the law of prosperity and decline. What is born must die, and
purity and cessation are peace and joy. Just as a potter molds
clay to make utensils, everything must perish, so too is
human life." Indra, upon hearing the
verse, understood the essence of impermanence, comprehended the
change of sins and merits, understood the root of prosperity and decline,
followed the teachings of purity and cessation. He rejoiced, upheld the righteous Dharma, attained
enlightenment, and completed the path of liberation. He entered the stream of
liberation and will never suffer
again. Those who take refuge in the Three Jewels with a single-minded devotion,
meaning "from now on, I
believe in no one but the Buddha, I do nothing
but the Buddha's teachings, I ask
no one but the Sangha, I support no one but the
Sangha,"
will then enter the stream of liberation, that is, the
fruit of the path of enlightenment. They will only have seven more
rebirths.  Then people will attain
Nirvana, that is, after seven lifetimes in the
human realm, they ascend to heaven, then
descend back to the human realm. But
if they descend to the human realm and enter the business world, they will become
very wealthy. Otherwise, they will become
people who alleviate suffering in this world.
Those who enter the path of
sainthood are like that. So, this Dharma discourse
ends here. I would like to remind the congregation to
consider impermanence. If we do
not consider it, when we have problems at home, who do
we think of?
Who do we seek solutions
from in the Buddha's teachings? Who
will help us with those problems? The monks! May the
congregation always
understand the principle of impermanence.
Oh
[music]